# Some Reminders about Project B and the End of the Semester

I found myself referring to this in the READMEs for multiple classes, so I decided to gather it all in one place.

## Project B Reminders

1. All submitted Project B Proposals have now been accepted. Be sure to [review my comments](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectB/proposal_plans.md).
2. The [Project B Presentation Schedule](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectB/schedule.md) is available, and each of you (through a Minute Paper) have confirmed your time and style (in person / Zoom). Project B presentations begin on 2022-04-25. 
    - Zoom information is now available on our Shared Drive in a Google Doc called **432 Project Presentation Zoom Information**. Please arrive at the Zoom call on time and ready to share your screen. If you're working with a partner, one of you should share the screen for both parts of your presentation.
    - **In person** presentations will be in Dr. Love's office on the ground floor of the Wood building, in Wood WG82-J. Please make sure you know how to get to that room and arrive 5 minutes early. 
    - If on the day of your presentation, you need to instead give your talk via Zoom for whatever reason, you will find the Zoom information on our Shared Drive. Please let Dr. Love know via email at least 30 minutes in advance of your presentation time if you need to switch to Zoom.
3. More details about what to prepare for and what to expect during your Project B presentation are available in [section 7 of the Project B instructions](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectB/projectB_instructions_2022.md#7-the-project-b-presentation).
    - Your job is to demonstrate skills acquired in 432. That doesn't mean demonstrating EVERY skill acquired in 432, and if that's what you're doing, don't. The most important thing you can do to demonstrate that you've learned something to me is to demonstrate VERY CLEARLY that you understand what the important things to do in a given setting are (in light of your research questions and the data you have and the models you fit) and that you also understand what are NOT important things to do in that setting. Too much is a mistake. Too little is a mistake. It's your job (in advance of your presentation) to find the balance that works for you.
    - I am not going to cede all control of the conversation in our meeting to you. I am going to ask you questions. I am going to make comments. I am not going to be happy if you're trying to read a script for each little section of your material. Make good choices about things you want to emphasize, and be ready to pivot to related concerns should they crop up. This is a conversation, not a monologue. The number of questions I ask you during your presentation will not be highly correlated with the quality of the presentation, unless you have a very major problem that I spot, in which case we'll try to figure it out. I want you to do well, and I will be trying to let you show me what you've learned.
4. The Project B portfolio is due (with any necessary changes after your presentation) on Monday 2022-05-02 at Noon to Canvas. Be sure to review the materials in [Sections 8 and 9 of the Project B instructions](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectB/projectB_instructions_2022.md#8-project-portfolio-template) closely.

## Other Reminders for the End of the Semester

1. Also due on 2022-05-02 at Noon are the [optional Lab Y](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/tree/main/labs/labY) and the [optional Lab Z](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/tree/main/labs/labZ), in addition to the [Lab Regrade Request Form](http://bit.ly/432-2022-lab-regrade-requests).
2. I'd like to give you an opportunity for some additional class participation credit and get a little help from you at the same time, so I've set up a Piazza tag called `your_advice`. I'd appreciate it if you posted a note there containing any advice or suggestions you have for students who will enter 431 in the Fall. Those students are starting to contact me now, and it would be helpful to give them something useful to think about in advance. If you post a note to Piazza with that tag (`your_advice`) by noon on 2022-05-02, I will provide a little class participation credit, with an additional bit if you post something I can actually see using with the students. Thanks!
3. **Course Evaluations**: Please be certain that you evaluate this course (ideally after you complete your project and submit your final work.) Course evaluations are available at https://webapps.case.edu/courseevals/ and open for your response any time between now and 11:59 PM on Thursday 2022-05-05.
4. Suggestions for improving your R skills and continuing your learning after 432 is over will be found in [the post-class README](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/tree/main/classes/postclass).
5. Information on applying to become a TA for Fall 2022's version of 431 will be available in early May. See the [post-class README](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/tree/main/classes/postclass) for details.
