# Feedback on Current Drafts of Project Proposals

Last Update: 2022-02-07 9:30 AM

You should find your proposal, and read the comments regarding it.

We have 35 projects underway.

- We have [accepted 17 project proposals](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/feedback1.md#accepted-proposals). If you're in this group, please read and incorporate our comments below into your final Project A submission, due 2022-03-04 at 9 PM.
- So, the [remaining 18 proposals need another revision](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/feedback1.md#proposals-needing-revision), and those revisions are due to Canvas **Tuesday 2022-02-08 at 9 PM**.

## Proposals Needing Revision

We need to see a revision of the proposals listed below that addresses the changes we request, before we can accept the proposal and let you move forward. Please submit your revised proposal, including R Markdown, HTML, raw data, and Rds (cleaned data) to Canvas in the **Project A Proposal Revision** assignment, no later than **Tuesday 2022-02-08 at 9 PM**. We will be happy to address any questions via TA office hours, or, failing that, through Piazza. New (lightly edited) proposal templates are [available here](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/tree/main/projectA/templates/For%20the%20Proposal) and on our Shared Drive. These templates have changed only to adjust the instructions in Sections 9 and 11. Check over [the rubric](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/rubric_proposal_draft.md), as well, if you have any questions about our evaluation points, or which section things should be found in.

Project | Investigator(s) | Comments To Address In Your Revision
:----: | :---------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------
3 | Kyaw Oo Hla | See my comments on your revision posted to Canvas, and produce a new revision by Tuesday 9 PM to address those issues.
6 | Gen Li and Jiayue Yang | Please include only one table. Section 3: Restrict the sample to no more than 1200 rows into one table, not two. Section 4: Your data set is not, in fact, a tibble. You know this because a tibble will only print the first ten rows. You need to affirmatively create this as a tibble, and not just as a data frame. There should be a minimum of 7 and a maximum of 18 columns in the table. Section 5: Only one table should include the list of planned inputs, including at least one multi-categorical (3-6 levels) variable and at least one quantitative variable. Question 6: The question needs more specification in the help mentioned. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
11 | Paulameena Shultes | Minor comments: Please update to R version 4.1.2. Section 3: You should place all the cleaning and data management operations in Section 3.2. Please specify that your categorical variables included in the tibble have at least 30 observations at each level. Also, your variables `ela_excel`, `math_excel`, and `ss_excel` are characters rather than categorical variables; please double-check them. Section 4: There are 14 variables for each entry, not the 16 you claim in section 4.2. Section 5: You listed multiple outcomes for both linear and logistic models; please limit them to one for each model. Section 6: Please determine one quantitative outcome for the proposed linear model. Section 7: Please limit to one binary outcome for the proposed logistic model and make sure it is a factor. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
12 | Olivia Wilcox | Section 1: Please read the proposal rubric to fill in information we were looking for here. Section 2: You should include more information here: how many subjects, are they randomly selected from population, is their age the only criteria for inclusion? Section 3: How did you select your 5000 subjects/10 columns for the "raw" datafile? You explained nicely qb084 and qa019 variables, what about the other ones? Once you slice out your sample, don't print 'projecta' in its entirety. You can use message = FALSE to hide mosaic message. You're saying that naming 78 animals per minute is impossible, but 77 are? That is what your code/explanation is suggesting. Rather, you should say that after removing the 78, the max becomes 40 which is plausible. Section 4: Your data set is not, in fact, a tibble. You know this because a tibble will only print the first ten rows. You need to affirmatively create this as a tibble, and not just as a data frame. Section 5: I think you meant to say "quant" not "want" in the code book. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
15 | Ria Tilve | Section 1: You should include in this section when the data were gathered (rather than in Section 2, as you did). Section 3: All data cleaning and management should be placed in Section 3.2. Is it really feasible that someone exercised 140x a month? You could consider some sort of cutoff here to have reasonable values. Fruit intake should be coded with the same heading as your other quantitative variables. Again, do you think it's reasonable to have consumed 30 pieces of fruit per day? Region of the country variable: It may be helpful to include which number codes for which state, or, mention that the numbers in the code correspond to states in the order you listed them. Bad days for physical health: You should make it clear that you are using this variable to filter out your subjects, either under the variable's heading or at the end when you are excluding them with "baddays =! Yes". Section 4: You are missing "a sentence is provided that specifies the number of rows (observations) and the number of columns (variables) in the data, that accurately reflects what the tibble listing specifies". Section 5: You may want to get rid of the labels on fruitfreq and weight variables by zap_label(). Section 6: "...that can change influence their weight.." "...fail significantly change their..." "..this is skew is very small.." -- make sure what you write makes sense. Also, you have pretty substantial skew there that could benefit from a transformation. General: make sure to run spell check (F7) and look over the HTML results. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
18 | Kiran Desai and Grace Armstrong | Minor comments: in section 2 you have some formatting mistakes (see "loading the data"); you should remove all of Dr. Love's instructions from your submission. I believe you mean "impact" in your title- some other spelling errors throughout. Please include your .RDS in submission. Section 1: small language clarification here: you state that your subjects are mothers of Puerto Ricans, does it makes more sense to say "Puerto Rican mothers" (and/or mothers of Puerto Rican descent - you mention there is data collection outside of PR); providing some additional context to the inclusion criteria would be beneficial for better understanding of this work. Section 3: you likely don't need both `age_at_birth` and `age_at_birth_years` in your final tibble- you don't include age_at_birth in your codebook. Also, it would be beneficial to state why you categorized the annual income levels as you did. Section 6: you should rephrase your research question so it better matches your planned analysis. Additionally, your birth_weight variable looks incredibly odd to me.  Your visualizations indicate that the majority of infants in this study were born at <500 grams (in 1994-95, no less!), which seems suspicious, at best. In your histogram there also appear to be several infants with a birthweight of 0 (or very close to 0)... that seems incorrect. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
19 | Cerag Oguztuzun and Abhishek Bhardwaj | Minor comments: Please update to R version 4.1.2. Section 2: Please include a description of the subjects, i.e., the rows, rather than the variables for this section. Section 3: You should place all the cleaning and data management operations in Section 3.2. Also, for your categorical predictor, health_con, the level `poor` only has 29 observations. Section 4: For the listing, you must simply type in the name of your tibble, so that we can see that only ten rows print and can thus verify that you have a tibble. Section 5: Please add details about what levels (in the correct order) are included in each categorical variable in the codebook's description column. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
20 | Tyler Petrie | Minor comments: In Section 6, you have a `Norman Q-Q plot` typo. Section 1: Please specify the purpose for which the data were originally gathered and the information regarding the sampling strategy & study design. Section 3: You should place all the cleaning and data management operations in Section 3.2. And please remove all of Dr. Love's instructions from your submission. You are recommended to perform sanity checks and testing to check your code. The subject identifier in your data is a factor rather than a character variable. Section 4: Your data set is not, in fact, a tibble. You know this because a tibble will only print the first ten rows. You need to affirmatively create this as a tibble, and not just as a data frame.  Also, your subject identifier is not a character variable, and you need to demonstrate that each row has a unique identifier. Section 5: In your final data, data_clean, there are ten variables, but you only included eight of them in your codebook, and there are some differences in these variables between those in the codebook and the described results. (1) Please consider dropping the potentially unused variables, e.g., `Public` and `early_career_pay`; (2) And in your codebook, your outcome is listed as `world_better_better_percent`, which is not in your data, and is described as a percent, which cannot be the binary outcome, probably you intended to use `world_better`? Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
23 | Rock Lim | Section 2: Subjects look different than what you mentioned. Section 6: Please solve warnings related to your codes. One of your histograms is not helpful. Please clearly mention at least four predictors in total. Section 7: You need at least four predictors in total. Please describe each of your predictors in detail, and clearly indicate what your modeling plans are in Sections 6 and 7. Make sure you meet all of the standards we describe in the instructions and rubric.
24 | Sarah Nock and Harrison Lindley | Section 6: You need to more clearly specify the predictors that you will use in your linear regression model, and show us that they meet all necessary standards. Section 7: There is no clear question that we can hope to answer with your proposed logistic model. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
25 | Ziyin Zhao | General: Please provide the csv file, it is difficult to replicate what you're doing without it, and at the very least, you have to tell us exactly where you got the data. Make sure to run spell check (f7) and read your sentences after you write them (e.g. "Describution" "subjects learned in the study" etc.. Section 1 & 9: Please provide a link to the data online. You should get rid of the warning message that appears after you load the csv file. If I am understanding correctly, you are using 2021 release to use 2019 data? You should mention that in Section 1, rather than later on. What was the purpose of gathering the data? Please read the grading rubric to specify information we were looking for. Section 2: Check your wording here. Section 3: Your way of selecting and filtering variables is unnecessary complex, but whatever works is fine. You could simply use filter(), select(), and mutate() functions here. Check and follow the advice in your warnings. For instance, one warning is suggesting to use as_tibble rather than as.tibble, you should do that. Section 4: StateAbbr and Location name are not unique identifiers, LocationID could be considered a unique identifier, but certainly not all three. You aren't using the first two anywhere else in the project, perhaps it would be a good idea to remove them. You can list the tibble just by calling the dataset's name, the command tibble() is not necessary for the listing. Section 5: What is your actual outcome? Cholesterol levels? The percentage of people with high cholesterol? Specify the units and clarify the outcomes please. From your codebook and linear regression plans it seems like you are predicting high_cholesterol from cholesterol_screening, which your codebook indicate are the same. Please add units of measure to your variables. Section 6 & 7: what is ACR (mg/g)? Should this be cholesterol %? Why do you have a histogram of continuous high_bp, when you are using it as a binary outcome? Please state your research questions for both linear and logistic regression. Again, I ama confused on the cholesterol_screening variable since your codebook indicates it is the same as your outcome. Please show you have no more than 4 + (N - 100)/100 candidate inputs, where N is the number of rows in the tibble. Section 9: Please format your references and add a link to the data. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
27 | Jacob Rich | Please include only the raw data you ingested for your analyses. Section 3: You need to have the subject identifier in the data and ensure it is a character variable. The proposed binary outcome, `Received_Treatment`, is still a character variable and only includes `Yes` as the value. Section 4: According to the listing, there should be eight columns in the tibble. And you should have the left-most column as the subject identifier and demonstrate that each row has a unique identifier. Section 5: I'll recommend you manually modify the variable `Days_Used_Pain_Relievers` and `Workdays_Missed` into numeric (they are currently S3: haven labeled), then the describe function can be run. Section 6: The chosen transformation is log-transformation, so you need to find a way to deal with the 0s existing in your outcome. Section 7: The outcome you describe is a character variable with only one level. So how could it be used as an outcome in a regression model?
29 | Chris Jones | Please include your raw data and your .Rds file. Section 1 and 2: I'm a little confused about the years you are talking about. 1930s/1940s and 1990s and then 2020 and 2021? This needs much greater explanation. You'll need to think about how you're going to handle missingness and provide us with those details. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
30 | David Selvaraj | Minor comment: You need to double-check the format for your code to make sure that Affirmation is in Section 8. Section 3: You should place all the cleaning and data management operations in Section 3.2. The muti-categorical variable,`INCOME16`, has 26 levels and is not used in your analyses. Section 4: For the listing, you are supposed to type in the name of your tibble. And you need to demonstrate that each row has a unique value for that variable. Section 5: The type for your binary outcome, `OWNGUN`, should be 2-cat. You listed `INCOME16` as the quantitative outcome, which is a factor, but in Section 6, `TVHOURS` is your proposed outcome. Please correct it. Please make your types consistent and specify in the codebook for levels included in each categorical variable. In general, your description should be informative, accompanied by the units of measurement. Section 6: You should consider rephrasing the question to be more informative. Also, you may need to consider a transformation based on your outcome distribution. Please list your candidate predictors intended to use for linear regression in 6.2. Section 7: You need to specify a research question for your proposed logistic model. Also, a count of the number of rows in your data with each of the two possible values of the binary outcome is required.
32 | Cyrus Nosrati | Make sure you you delete all of Dr. Love's instructions from your final file. Section 2: saying "Each individual subject is meant to represent 65,000 people" is somewhat of an odd phrasing when describing each row - it makes sense when you're describing the rationale of the sampling method for the overall data, but not so much in this section. Each row isn't the average of 65,000 responses, right? Section 3: not sure that having Hmisc::describe twice in this work is needed, it may be more beneficial to have some smaller/more straight forward sanity checks throughout your data cleaning jsut so that it's clear that things are going as you anticipate. Section 6 &7: you don't actually ask a question, with a question mark. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
33 | Norman Luc | See my comments on your materials posted to Canvas, and produce a new revision by Tuesday 9 PM to address those issues.
34 | Steven Mayher | See my comments on your materials posted to Canvas, and produce a new revision by Tuesday 9 PM to address those issues.
35 | Sarah Frischmann | No submission

## Accepted Proposals

While the proposals below need some adjustments, we accept them now and you do not need to submit a revision. Instead, you should make the changes noted below as part of the process of completing the final Project A. Augmented templates for the final project are now available on our Shared Drive and [also here](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/tree/main/projectA/templates/For%20the%20Final%20Submission). The changes to these templates (as compared to the proposal template you have been working with) are the addition of new sections 8-10, and corrections to the instructions we provided in what are now sections 12 and 14.

Project | Investigator(s) | Comments To Address in Your Final Project Submission
:----: | :---------: | :------------------------------------------------------------------
1 | Erika Hutt and Alan Kiang | Section 6: Your question also includes your binary outcome, so just edit this. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
2 | Alise Carlson | Minor comments: the websites in your first two references aren't linked correctly. You don't capitalize "united states" in section 2 and you probably should. Section 3: I am not seeing any confirmation that all categorical variables included in the tibble have at least 30 observations at each level/discussion of sanity checks- although this information is available later on - it would be nice to be told here, rather than looking for it. I'm also not certain why you would have/need two ID variables.  Section 5: It took me a while to fully understand what your variables were, with part of my confusion stemming from this table - you say for all of your `rep_race` categories that the possible values are 0-100, when I believe it would be -100 to 100.  More clearly stating what these variables are/how they are made would also be helpful. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
4 | Kristi Lin-Rahardja | Please include your .Rds and raw data in submission. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
5 | Jay Wei | Thanks for your successful revision. See my remaining comments on Canvas and keep them in mind as you prepare your final project.
7 | Raunak Nair and Sid Dugar | Section 4: Your data set `final_data` is not, in fact, a tibble. You know this because a tibble will only print the first ten rows. You need to affirmatively create this as a tibble, and not just as a data frame. Also, why would you call this final_data in your work, but call the Rds file `cleaned-data`? Please make the two names the same so as to avoid confusion. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
8 | Sneha Yamsani and Himani Sancheti | Section 4: Your data set `hrsdata` is not, in fact, a tibble. You know this because a tibble will only print the first ten rows. You need to affirmatively create this as a tibble, and not just as a data frame. General: The word data is plural thus "these" should be used rather than "this". Section 9: Is the dataset available online? If so, provide a link please. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
9 | Owen LaFramboise | Section 5: Add another column with the type, both outcome/predictor and numeric/categorical, to your table.
10 | Ben Kramer and Jacqueline Shaia | Please include your .Rds in submission. Section 6: Truncating a histogram and hiding the messages is not a good idea. You should at least include the full one since you'll have to manage the outliers you've hidden somehow. It's always a good idea to hard return after code chunks and before and after headers. This will help some odd formatting of the text you have.
13 | Alex Olejko | General comments: It would be better to build and clean a single tibble at the start and then filter/subset it differently for the two analyses. Two different datasets also affect your codebook; for example, the variable `color` in sample `wine1` only has one level, while the variable `variety` in sample `wine2` has ten levels. Section 4: Your listing should be limited to the first ten rows, and you can achieve it by converting your data into a tibble, which you have not done. What you have here are data frames, and not tibbles. Fix that. 
14 | Anushree Iyengar and Avantika Bhaduri | Please include your .Rds and raw data in your submission. Section 2: I'm not sure what "29 x = rows for county, state" means here. Check for typographical errors ("OUr")
16 | Carly Rose and Diya Yang | Thanks for your successful revision. See my remaining comments on Canvas and keep them in mind as you prepare your final project.
17 | Michael Douglass | Section 1: it would be helpful if you would provide a little more context on the data to better understand the variables you go on to describe.
21 | Aaron Fletcher | In sections 6 and 7, you don't capitalize BMI, and more importantly, you don't actually ask a question. Be sure to present a clear question in each section that relates directly to your planned model for that analysis. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
22 | Audrey Zhu | Section 6 & 7: Please show that you have no more than 4 + (N - 100)/100 candidate inputs, where N is the number of rows in the tibble. Section 9: Provide a link to the dataset if it can be found online. If not, describe the source and your access to it explicitly. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
26 | Cong Fan | Section 3: there appears to be some unused code for loading data here. Also some confusing things happening in this cleaning section, that would be improved with explaining what you're doing step by step. You also state "I converted quantitative variables to numerical variables" - which doesn't make much sense. Section 4: you print your whole dataframe because you don't have a tibble, but rather just a data frame. We would recommend using "read_csv" rather than "read.csv" to read in the csv file as a tibble.  Otherwise, you have to affirmatively make your data frame into a tibble later in the code. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
28 | Katie Heinzinger | Section 1: recommend providing a little more descriptive information to better meet the section requirements. Section 7: you don't have a research question written out. What I can determine based on your information in this section is basically a prediction of whipped cream vs. no whipped cream. You say: "I am curious about what factors impact others’ decision to add whipped cream." From the limited information provided on these data, it appears that this is just the nutritional information on all the drinks at Starbucks - so it describes the quality of the drink rather than an individual's choice of adding whipped cream. In conclusion: this (not yet stated) question seems a bit odd with the narrative you are providing. 
31 | Makaela Mews | Section 2: we'd like a little more detail. All counties in the US? Is that what you have? There are better ways to reorder the columns in section 3.2 - using the tidyverse and the select() function to specify the order you want from the beginning, and you should really be able to avoid using clean_names() twice. Your Section 3.3 heading is misspelled. You should use message = FALSE to avoid the message when you call favstats in section 3.3, or else include mosaic as a package you load at the start. In your table in section 5.1, I don't know what an fct code means. Also, [change the title](https://github.com/THOMASELOVE/432-2022/blob/main/projectA/proposals/titles.md).
